# Simple Authentication Server

This is a simple authentication server written in Python using the `http.server` and `socketserver` modules. It provides basic registration, login, and password recovery functionality.

## Features

- Registration: Users can register by providing a unique username, email, and password.
- Login: Registered users can log in using their username and password.
- Password Recovery: Users can request a password reset by providing their username. A new password will be generated and sent to them.
- Two-Factor Authentication: After successful login, users are required to enter a two-factor authentication (2FA) code generated by an authenticator app.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.x
- `http.server` module (built-in)
- `socketserver` module (built-in)
- `urllib.parse` module (built-in)
- `os` module (built-in)
- `hashlib` module (built-in)
- `base64` module (built-in)
- `ssl` module (built-in)

## Usage

1. Clone the repository or download the code files.

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/igor20192/authentication_app.git

2. Generate SSL/TLS certificates (`server.crt` and `server.key`) for secure communication (optional but recommended).
3. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the project directory.

   ```shell
   cd authentication_app

4. Check in and activate the Python virtual environment

   ```shell
   python3 -m venv env
   . env/bin/activate

5. Run the following command to start the authentication server:

   ```shell
   python auth_user.py

6. The server will start listening on the specified port (default: 8000) and serve the required HTML pages.
7. Access the server using a web browser at https://localhost:<PORT>, where <PORT> is the port number specified in the code.
8. Follow the on-screen instructions to register, log in, and perform other actions.
9. User registration go : https://localhost:8000
   Login : https://localhost:8000/login
   Change Password : https://localhost:8000/forgot_password
   Log out : https://localhost:8000:logout

## Implementation Description

In the code, the TLS protocol is implemented using the ssl module in Python. Here's how it goes:

1. Create an SSL/TLS context:

   ```shell
   # Create an SSL/TLS context
   context = ssl.SSLContext(ssl.PROTOCOL_TLS_SERVER)
   context.load_cert_chain(certfile="server.crt", keyfile="server.key")

This code creates an SSLContext object using the ssl.PROTOCOL_TLS_SERVER protocol. The certificate (server.crt) and the corresponding key (server.key) are then loaded using the load_cert_chain method to ensure a secure connection.
2. Applying an SSL/TLS context to a socket:

   ```shell
   httpd.socket = context.wrap_socket(httpd.socket)

This code applies the SSL/TLS context to the server's socket httpd.socket. Now the server will accept encrypted connections using the TLS protocol.
Server start:

   ```shell
   httpd.serve_forever()

After applying the SSL/TLS context to the socket, the server starts up and starts listening for incoming requests on the specified port. All connections will be protected by the TLS protocol.

Note: The TLS protocol requires a valid
certificate, which you must provide in the form of server.crt files
certificate and server.key key. Make sure you have the correct
certificate and key, or generate them with tools like OpenSSL.







